DART-245 Modify rule S7088: Make it a vulnerability (#4965)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S7088/dart/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

Transport Layer Security (TLS) provides a secure channel between systems communicating over the internet by encrypting the data sent between them. TLS can be used with `http` and `git` URI schemes to build secure `https` and `git+https` channels respectively. 

These secure protocols are essential for the confidentiality and the integrity of the communication performed when supply chain operations are performed, such as `dart pub get`, `flutter pub get`, `dart pub upgrade`, etc.

In the https://dart.dev/tools/pub/pubspec[`pubspec.yaml` file], which is a file used by several Dart/Flutter commands, there's a possibility to specify URIs in various attributes: homepage, repository, issue_tracker, dependency repositories, etc. 

> It is important to make sure that secure schemes are used in all these URIs. The protocol used in the `https` scheme provide an additional layer of security by encrypting the transferred data and checking the TLS/SSL certificates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to make sure that secure schemes are used in all these URIs. The protocol used in the `https` scheme provide an additional layer of security by encrypting the transferred data and verifying the server's identity. 
```

> It is important to make sure that secure schemes are used in all these URIs. The protocol used in the `https` scheme provide an additional layer of security by encrypting the transferred data and checking the TLS/SSL certificates. 

Author: I went with the first option.

It is generally recommended to avoid using `http` or `git` URIs that may potentially be used by Dart/Flutter commands to gather external data during any stage of the application build.

=== What is the potential impact

==== Man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks

> An attacker can intercept the communication between the client and server, allowing them modify the data being transmitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An attacker can intercept the communication between the client and server, allowing them to modify the data being transmitted.
```

----

== Resources

=== Documentation

* Dart Docs - https://dart.dev/tools/linter-rules/secure_pubspec_urls[Dart Linter rule - secure_pubspec_urls]
* Dart Docs - https://dart.dev/tools/pub/pubspec[pubspec]
* Wikipedia - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTPS[HTTPS]

> === Standards

Author: I haven't added any links related to PCI DSS and ASVS, since I could not find good web links, except the md files on GitHub which I have linked above. Looking at some other rules, I don't think PCI DSS and ASVS standards are generally linked in this section, but if they are or they should, please point me to those and I will add them.

Author: I have just found out about the following sentence in [this page](https://devguide.owasp.org/08-culture-process/04-asvs/):

> Having said that, the recommended way to consume the ASVS is to access the [github markdown](https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/blob/v4.0.3/4.0/en/0x00-Header.md) pages directly - this will ensure that the latest version is used.

* OWASP - https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A3_2017-Sensitive_Data_Exposure[Top 10 2017 Category A3 - Sensitive Data Exposure]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/2017/A6_2017-Security_Misconfiguration[Top 10 2017 Category A6 - Security Misconfiguration]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/[Top 10 2021 Category A2 - Cryptographic Failures]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/Top10/A05_2021-Security_Misconfiguration/[Top 10 2021 Category A5 - Security Misconfiguration]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/2016-risks/m3-insecure-communication[Mobile Top 10 2016 Category M3 - Insecure Communication]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/2023-risks/m2-inadequate-supply-chain-security[Mobile Top 10 2024 Category M2 - Inadequate Supply Chain Security]
* OWASP - https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/2023-risks/m5-insecure-communication[Mobile Top 10 2024 Category M5 - Insecure Communication]
* CWE - https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/319[CWE-319 - Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information]

> * STIG Viewer - https://stigviewer.com/stig/application_security_and_development/2023-06-08/finding/V-222562[Application Security and Development: V-222562] - Applications used for non-local maintenance must implement cryptographic mechanisms to protect the integrity of maintenance and diagnostic communications.

Author: I used these links from other rules. I could not verify them myself as it seems I don't have access to the STIG Viewer.

Author: OK, as discussed offline, the stigviewer changed base URI when a new standard was released, and as a result all our links got broken.
I have updated this PR to point to the new links. There is a [dedicated PR](https://github.com/SonarSource/rspec/pull/4968) to fix all the broken link already in master.
